---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

**BANTER for Beaked Whales**

***Research Compendium*** for Rankin, et al (in review at Ecological
Informatics), " Open-Source machine learning BANTER acoustic
classification of beaked whale echolocation pulses"

***How to Cite:*** *will be provided when available*

***Contents***

The analysis directory contains:

![](images/blueFolderIcon-02.png) manuscript - Quarto (markdown) source
document for manuscript and supplement. Includes code to reproduce
figures generated by the analysis. Note that there are some relatively
minor manual modifications between the manuscript markdown and the final
submitted document. This folder include figures created for each of the
study areas (code to create those figures are in the relevant study area
folders).

![](images/blueFolderIcon-03.png) natlantic - Markdown file for analysis
of NAtlantic beaked whale dataset used in this analysis, the PAMpal
acoustic study, and the banter model output. The raw data for this is
not publicly available.

![](images/blueFolderIcon-04.png) satlantic- Markdown file for analysis
of SAtlantic beaked whale dataset used in this analysis, the PAMpal
acoustic study, and the banter model output. The raw data for this is
not publicly available.

![](images/blueFolderIcon-05.png) hawaii- Markdown file for analysis of
Hawaii beaked whale dataset used in this analysis, the PAMpal acoustic
study, and the banter model output. The raw data for this is not
publicly available.

![](images/blueFolderIcon-06.png) epacific- Markdown file for analysis
of Hawaii beaked whale dataset used in this analysis, the PAMpal
acoustic study, and the banter model output. Data for the East Pacific
(U.S. West Coast) is publicly available on
[Figshare](https://figshare.com/projects/Beaked_Whale_Acoustic_Events_from_Drifting_Acoustic_Recordings_during_NOAA_s_CCES_2018_Survey/94511),
including the [EPacific Detection
Data](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/CCES_2018_Acoustic_Study_Detection_Data/23319938)
used in this analysis.

If you would like to conduct a similar analysis on your datasets, you
can analyze your data using:

-   Pamguard softwater (pamguard.org)

-   PAMpal

    -   [PAMpal on
        CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/PAMpal/index.html)

    -   [Basic Tutorial](https://taikisan21.github.io/PAMpal/) (living
        document)

    -   Detailed Tutorial with videos and test datasets on
        [Figshare](https://figshare.com/projects/PAMpal_Tutorial_and_Dataset/137197)

-   BANTER

    -   [BANTER on
        CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/banter/index.html)

    -   [Manual/Guide](https://taikisan21.github.io/PAMpal/banterGuide.html)
